---
title: "Quote of the day"
draft: false
date: "2010-07-31T21:05:00"
aliases:
  - "/KataQotdCgi"

---
    **Quote of the day CGI**

**About this Kata**

I teach web applications programming to undergraduates. I usually
explain the stuff, point them to the book, and ask them to produce a
finished web application as part of their examination. On some people it
works and they make great apps. On other people it doesn't. This year
I'm trying a new approach, to teach with katas. I started with this
small kata.

There are two main differences with respect to the usual TDD katas. The
way I describe it, there is no TDD. My students can't do that yet, and
the main purpose is to teach about the web. So I replace the feedback
from the tests with the feedback of reloading the page on the web. I'm
still doing [BabySteps](/BabySteps) though.

The other difference is that I describe every step in detail. I'm asking
the student to learn to perform the steps by memory. I think this will
teach them to really do [BabySteps](/BabySteps) , and get quick
feedback. My inspiration is [UncleBob](/people/UncleBob) 's
<http://butunclebob.com/ArticleS.UncleBob.TheBowlingGameKata> , that I
found so very instructive.

The full description: <http://matteo.vaccari.name/aw/kata-cgi-quotes>

Part of the motivation behind this experiment is that I don't have the
time or resource to actually follow them in regular lab exercises. The
kata with detailed steps could be a great instrument for self study.

**Problem Description**

You are to write a web service that returns a different quote every time
you visit it. As an additional requirement, if you add a query parameter
like "?q=foobar" it should return a random quote that contains the
string "foobar".

**Clues**

Scripting languages such as Ruby or PHP should make it much easier than
Java or C\#.

-- [MatteoVaccari](/people/MatteoVaccari)
